---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/schneider/phan-tich-jd/0-jd/","updated":"2026-04-13T15:50:56.453+07:00"}
---

**COMMERCIAL EXCELLENCE SPECIALIST  
**The Commercial Excellence Specialist at Schneider Electric Vietnam is responsible for driving commercial excellence initiatives to enhance sales effectiveness, optimize business processes, and support strategic decision-making. This role involves close collaboration with various departments to ensure the successful implementation of commercial strategies and tools.**

**Key Responsibilities:**

**Sales Effectiveness:** Enhance salesforce effectiveness through setting and monitoring sales efficiency KPIs, leading communications (trainings/sales programs) at the cluster level, and driving the adoption of digital/AI tools within the sales team.

**Governance Process:** Support Operations Manager in managing the company governance process, Commercial Meetings, Project Reviews, Monthly Business Briefs/Newletter, and Quarterly Business Reviews...

**Strategic Planning:** Follow up on execution of annual sales and marketing plan (AMSP) and oversee Strategic account planning to ensure alignment with business objectives.

**Data Analysis:** Conduct internal and external data analysis to provide insightful reports for strategic decision-making. Ensure data quality of Salesforce CRM (bFO) in terms of pipeline health and customer account information.

**Market Insights:** Understand the market landscape and provide valuable macro/segment/competitor information through monthly BI newsletters.

**Collaboration:** Work with multiple stakeholders across various divisions to ensure alignment and successful execution of commercial initiatives.

**Digital Transformation:** Follow up on the deployment of Salesforce BFO Dashboard, BFO Mobile, SCT, and Copilot for sales. Monitor the usage and adoption rates of these tools.

Requirements:

Education: Bachelor's degree in Business, Finance, Statistics, or related fields..

1-2 years of experience in related jobs.

Expertise in advanced Excel; experience with SQL, Tableau/Power BI, SAP, or other data tools is a plus.

High level of critical thinking, analytical thinking, attention to detail, and numerical skills.

Experience working with multiple stakeholders across various divisions.

Excellent writing and verbal communication skills in English and Vietnamese.

Comfortable working with large data sets and numbers.

Collaborative and client-centric mindset.